Created an announcement of Ember 3.22 release (#785)
ember-learn/ember-blog: source/2020-10-06-ember-3-22-released.md

Today the Ember project is releasing version 3.22 of Ember.js, Ember Data, and Ember CLI.

This release kicks off the 3.23 beta cycle for all sub-projects. We encourage our community (especially addon authors) to help test these beta builds and report any bugs before they are published as a final release in six weeks' time. The [ember-try](https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-try) addon is a great way to continuously test your projects against the latest Ember releases.

You can read more about our general release process here:

- [Release Dashboard](http://emberjs.com/releases/)
- [The Ember Release Cycle](http://emberjs.com/blog/2013/09/06/new-ember-release-process.html)
- [The Ember Project](http://emberjs.com/blog/2015/06/16/ember-project-at-2-0.html)
- [Ember LTS Releases](http://emberjs.com/blog/2016/02/25/announcing-embers-first-lts.html)

---

## Ember.js

Ember.js is the core framework for building ambitious web applications.

### Changes in Ember.js 3.22

Ember.js 3.22 is an incremental, backwards compatible release of Ember with bugfixes, performance improvements, and minor deprecations.

#### New Features

Ember.js 3.22 introduced <!-- TODO: Add number --> features.

> <!-- TODO: List features -->

Author: ```suggestion
<!-- TODO: List features -->
- Placeholder for `@ember/destroyable` RFC
- Placeholder for Cache API
```

---
title: Ember 3.22 Released

> author: Isaac Lee, Ricardo Mendes

Author: ```suggestion
author: Jared Galanis, Isaac Lee, Ricardo Mendes
```

This release kicks off the 3.23 beta cycle for all sub-projects. We encourage our community (especially addon authors) to help test these beta builds and report any bugs before they are published as a final release in six weeks' time. The [ember-try](https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-try) addon is a great way to continuously test your projects against the latest Ember releases.

You can read more about our general release process here:

- [Release Dashboard](http://emberjs.com/releases/)
- [The Ember Release Cycle](http://emberjs.com/blog/2013/09/06/new-ember-release-process.html)
- [The Ember Project](http://emberjs.com/blog/2015/06/16/ember-project-at-2-0.html)
- [Ember LTS Releases](http://emberjs.com/blog/2016/02/25/announcing-embers-first-lts.html)

---

## Ember.js

Ember.js is the core framework for building ambitious web applications.

### Changes in Ember.js 3.22

Ember.js 3.22 is an incremental, backwards compatible release of Ember with bugfixes, performance improvements, and minor deprecations.

#### New Features

Ember.js 3.22 introduced <!-- TODO: Add number --> features.

<!-- TODO: List features -->

> - Placeholder for `@ember/destroyable` RFC

Author: ```suggestion
- Enabled `@ember/destroyable` API, which allows users to create and manage their own destroyables. For more information, please see the [Destroyables RFC](https://emberjs.github.io/rfcs/0580-destroyables.html).
```

> - Enabled `@ember/destroyable` API, which allows users to create and manage their own destroyables. For more information, please see the [Destroyables RFC](https://emberjs.github.io/rfcs/0580-destroyables.html).

Author: ```suggestion
- Enabled `@ember/destroyable` API, which allows you to create and manage your own destroyables. For more information, please see the [Destroyables RFC](https://emberjs.github.io/rfcs/0580-destroyables.html).
```

> - Placeholder for Cache API

Author: ```suggestion
- Enabled Cache API, a low-level primitive for memoizing the result of a function based on autotracking. (You can install a [polyfill](https://github.com/ember-polyfills/ember-cache-primitive-polyfill) for apps between versions 3.13 and 3.21.) For more information, please check the [Ember Guides](https://guides.emberjs.com/release/in-depth-topics/autotracking-in-depth/#toc_caching-of-tracked-properties) and [Autotracking Memoization RFC](https://emberjs.github.io/rfcs/0615-autotracking-memoization.html).
```

<!-- TODO: List deprecations -->

Deprecations are added to Ember.js when an API will be removed at a later date. Each deprecation has an entry in the deprecation guide describing the migration path to a more stable API. Deprecated public APIs are not removed until a major release of the framework.

Consider using the [ember-cli-deprecation-workflow](https://github.com/mixonic/ember-cli-deprecation-workflow) addon if you would like to upgrade your application without immediately addressing deprecations.

For more details on changes in Ember.js 3.22, please review the [Ember.js 3.22.0 release page](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/releases/tag/v3.22.0).

---

## Ember Data

Ember Data is the official data persistence library for Ember.js applications. 

### Changes in Ember Data 3.22

Ember Data 3.22 included several bug fixes of note, including:

- [a fix](https://github.com/emberjs/data/pull/7331) for the mutation of `errorsFor` so that observing templates are aware that the array was updated;
- [a fix](https://github.com/emberjs/data/pull/7322) that disables the esm cache to solve build time errors some applications were experiencing; and

> - [a fix](https://github.com/emberjs/data/pull/7126) that addresses relationship state whne sideposting with `lid`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [a fix](https://github.com/emberjs/data/pull/7126) that addresses relationship state when sideposting with `lid`.
- [a fix](https://github.com/emberjs/data/pull/7330) that ensures changes to hasMany relationships are autotracked.
```

tags: Releases, 2020, 3, 3.22, Version 3.x
responsive: true
---

Today the Ember project is releasing version 3.22 of Ember.js, Ember Data, and Ember CLI.

This release kicks off the 3.23 beta cycle for all sub-projects. We encourage our community (especially addon authors) to help test these beta builds and report any bugs before they are published as a final release in six weeks' time. The [ember-try](https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-try) addon is a great way to continuously test your projects against the latest Ember releases.

You can read more about our general release process here:

- [Release Dashboard](http://emberjs.com/releases/)
- [The Ember Release Cycle](http://emberjs.com/blog/2013/09/06/new-ember-release-process.html)
- [The Ember Project](http://emberjs.com/blog/2015/06/16/ember-project-at-2-0.html)
- [Ember LTS Releases](http://emberjs.com/blog/2016/02/25/announcing-embers-first-lts.html)

---

## Ember.js

Ember.js is the core framework for building ambitious web applications.

### Changes in Ember.js 3.22

Ember.js 3.22 is an incremental, backwards compatible release of Ember with bugfixes, performance improvements, and minor deprecations.

#### New Features

> Ember.js 3.22 introduced <!-- TODO: Add number --> features.
> 
> <!-- TODO: List features -->
> - Enabled `@ember/destroyable` API, which allows you to create and manage your own destroyables. For more information, please see the [Destroyables RFC](https://emberjs.github.io/rfcs/0580-destroyables.html).
> <!-- alex disable retext-equality -->
> - Enabled Cache API, a low-level primitive for memoizing the result of a function based on autotracking. (You can install a [polyfill](https://github.com/ember-polyfills/ember-cache-primitive-polyfill) for apps between versions 3.13 and 3.21.) For more information, please check the [Ember Guides](https://guides.emberjs.com/release/in-depth-topics/autotracking-in-depth/#toc_caching-of-tracked-properties) and [Autotracking Memoization RFC](https://emberjs.github.io/rfcs/0615-autotracking-memoization.html).

Author: ```suggestion
Ember.js 3.22 introduced 3 features.

<!-- TODO: List features -->
- Enabled `@ember/destroyable` API, which allows you to create and manage your own destroyables. For more information, please see the [Destroyables RFC](https://emberjs.github.io/rfcs/0580-destroyables.html).
<!-- alex disable retext-equality -->
- Enabled Cache API, a low-level primitive for memoizing the result of a function based on autotracking. (You can install a [polyfill](https://github.com/ember-polyfills/ember-cache-primitive-polyfill) for apps between versions 3.13 and 3.21.) For more information, please check the [Ember Guides](https://guides.emberjs.com/release/in-depth-topics/autotracking-in-depth/#toc_caching-of-tracked-properties) and [Autotracking Memoization RFC](https://emberjs.github.io/rfcs/0615-autotracking-memoization.html).
- Allowed passing the `transition` object to 2 route hooks, `activate` and `deactivate`.
```
